# CCL-Mini-Project
The cloud services used in this project have different functionalities which are explained below.


➢	EC2 Instance: Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) offers the broadest and deepest compute platform, with over 500 instances and choice of the latest processor, storage, networking, operating system, and purchase model to help you best match the needs of your workload. They are the first major cloud provider that support Intel, AMD, and Arm processors, the only cloud with on-demand EC2 Mac instances, and the only cloud with 400 Gbps Ethernet networking. They offer the best price performance for machine learning training, as well as the lowest cost per inference instances in the cloud. More SAP, high performance computing (HPC), ML, and Windows workloads run on AWS than any other cloud.


EC2 allows users to Access reliable, scalable infrastructure on demand, scale capacity within minutes with SLA commitment of 99.99% availability, optimize performance and cost with flexible options like AWS Graviton-based instances, Amazon EC2 Spot instances, and AWS Savings Plans, and provide secure compute for all applications.

EC2 Use Cases:

   Run cloud-native and enterprise applications:
Amazon EC2 delivers secure, reliable, high-performance, and cost-effective compute infrastructure to meet demanding business needs.
   Scale for HPC applications:
Access the on-demand infrastructure and capacity you need to run HPC applications faster and cost-effectively.
 
   Train and deploy ML applications:
Amazon EC2 delivers the broadest choice of compute, networking (up to 400 Gbps), and storage services purpose-built to optimize price performance for ML projects.
➢	XAMPP: XAMPP is one of the widely used cross-platform web servers, which helps developers to create and test their programs on a local webserver. It was developed by the Apache Friends, and its native source code can be revised or modified by the audience. It consists of Apache HTTP Server, MariaDB, and interpreter for the different programming languages like PHP and Perl. It is available in 11 languages and supported by different platforms such as the IA-32 package of Windows & x64 package of macOS and Linux. XAMPP helps a local host or server to test its website and clients via computers and laptops before releasing it to the main server. It is a platform that furnishes a suitable environment to test and verify the working of projects based on Apache, Perl, MySQL database, and PHP through the system of the host itself. Among these technologies, Perl is a programming language used for web development, PHP is a backend scripting language, and MariaDB is the most vividly used database developed by MySQL. XAMPP is used to symbolize the classification of solutions for different technologies. It provides a base for testing of projects based on different technologies through a personal server. XAMPP is an abbreviated form of each alphabet representing each of its major components. This collection of software contains a web server named Apache, a database management system named MariaDB and scripting/ programming languages such as PHP and Perl. X denotes Cross-platform, which means that it can work on different platforms such as Windows, Linux, and macOS.
➢	MySQL: MySQL is an open-source relational database management system. As with other relational databases, MySQL stores data in tables made up of rows and columns. Users can define, manipulate, control, and query data using Structured Query Language, more commonly known as SQL. A flexible and powerful program, MySQL is the most popular open-source database system in the world. As part of the widely-used LAMP technology stack (which consists of a Linux-based operating system, the Apache web server, a MySQL database, and PHP for processing), it’s used to store and retrieve data in a wide variety of popular applications, websites, and services.
➢	Apache:  The Apache HTTP Server is a free and open-source cross-platform web server software, released under the terms of Apache License 2.0. Apache is developed and maintained by an open community of developers under the auspices of the Apache Software Foundation. Apache supports a variety of features, many implemented as compiled modules which extend the core functionality. These can range from authentication schemes to supporting server-side programming languages such as Perl, Python, Tcl and PHP.  Popular compression methods on Apache include the external extension module, mod_gzip, implemented to help with reduction of the size (weight) of web pages served over HTTP. Throughout the last few decades, Apache has proven to be a staple in many popular stacks and the backbone of the early internet year. While it’s popularity is declining and the options of web server choices are increasing, Apache still plays a pivotal role in many technology stacks and companies system infrastructure. Even with new technologies and servers coming out nonstop, Apache is still a technology every developer should learn how to handle and configure. 
